  [Translations available: Chinese Dutch French Portuguese Spanish Japanese
                            Korean Thai Italian ]

[Image]                      The Open Source Definition

                                   (Version 1.7)

        Open source doesn't just mean access to the source code. The
        distribution terms of open-source software must comply with the
        following criteria:

        1. Free Redistribution

        The license may not restrict any party from selling or giving away
        the software as a component of an aggregate software distribution
        containing programs from several different sources. The license may
        not require a royalty or other fee for such sale. (rationale)

        2. Source Code

        The program must include source code, and must allow distribution in
        source code as well as compiled form. Where some form of a product
        is not distributed with source code, there must be a well-publicized
        means of obtaining the source code for no more than a reasonable
        reproduction cost -- preferably, downloading via the Internet
        without charge. The source code must be the preferred form in which
        a programmer would modify the program. Deliberately obfuscated
        source code is not allowed. Intermediate forms such as the output of
        a preprocessor or translator are not allowed. (rationale)

        3. Derived Works

        The license must allow modifications and derived works, and must
        allow them to be distributed under the same terms as the license of
        the original software. (rationale)

        4. Integrity of The Author's Source Code.

        The license may restrict source-code from being distributed in
        modified form only if the license allows the distribution of "patch
        files" with the source code for the purpose of modifying the program
        at build time. The license must explicitly permit distribution of
        software built from modified source code. The license may require
        derived works to carry a different name or version number from the
        original software. (rationale)

        5. No Discrimination Against Persons or Groups.

        The license must not discriminate against any person or group of
        persons. (rationale)

        6. No Discrimination Against Fields of Endeavor.

        The license must not restrict anyone from making use of the program
        in a specific field of endeavor. For example, it may not restrict
        the program from being used in a business, or from being used for
        genetic research. (rationale)

        7. Distribution of License.

        The rights attached to the program must apply to all to whom the
        program is redistributed without the need for execution of an
        additional license by those parties. (rationale)

        8. License Must Not Be Specific to a Product.

        The rights attached to the program must not depend on the program's
        being part of a particular software distribution. If the program is
        extracted from that distribution and used or distributed within the
        terms of the program's license, all parties to whom the program is
        redistributed should have the same rights as those that are granted
        in conjunction with the original software distribution. (rationale)

        9. License Must Not Contaminate Other Software.

        The license must not place restrictions on other software that is
        distributed along with the licensed software. For example, the
        license must not insist that all other programs distributed on the
        same medium must be open-source software. (rationale)

        Conformance

        (This section is not part of the Open Source Definition.)

        We think the Open Source Definition captures what the great majority
        of the software community originally meant, and still mean, by the
        term "Open Source". However, the term has become widely used and its
        meaning has lost some precision. The OSI Certified mark is OSI's way
        of certifying that the license under which the software is
        distributed conforms to the OSD; the generic term "Open Source"
        cannot provide that assurance, but we still encourage use of the
        term "Open Source" to mean conformance to the OSD. For information
        about the OSI Certified mark, and for a list of licenses that OSI
        has approved as conforming to the OSD, see this page.

        Change history:

        1.0 -- identical to DFSG, except for addition of MPL and QPL to
        clause 10.

        1.1 -- added LGPL to clause 10.

        1.2 -- added public-domain to clause 10.

        1.3 -- retitled clause 10 and split off the license list, adding
        material on procedures.

        1.4 -- Now explicit about source code requirement for PD software.

        1.5 -- allow ``reasonable reproduction cost'' to meet GPL terms.

        1.6 -- Edited section 10; this material has moved.

        1.7 -- Section 10 replaced with new "Conformance" section.

Bruce Perens wrote the first draft of this document as `The Debian Free
Software Guidelines', and refined it using the comments of the Debian
developers in a month-long e-mail conference in June, 1997. He removed the
Debian-specific references from the document to create the `Open Source
Definition'.

Send questions or suggestions about this page to webmaster@opensource.org
